# PlanetilerTorrent
a script to generate planetiler torrents. This is meant to be triggered on OpenStreetMap planet pbf torrent completion ( https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Planet.osm#BitTorrent )

# Server Setup

1. Install qbittorent. I followerd this quide https://pimylifeup.com/ubuntu-qbittorrent/

2. Download the planetiler jar file ( https://github.com/onthegomap/planetiler ). The script expects 'planetiler_0.6.0.jar' to '/opt/planetiler'. Note that planetiler requires java 17+ installed, which I installed with 'apt install openjdk-17-jdk openjdk-17-jre'

3. create local paths used by the script

```
/opt/PlanetilerTorrent (script files in this repo)
/store/http/ (where all the rss and torrent files for users get put. I use this as the root of a apache virtual host site)
/store/planet/ (where qbittorent will download the planet pdb files)
/store/planetiler/ (where the planetiler files are generated by create_planetiler_torrent.sh)
/store/upload/ (a folder that qbittorent monitors for automatic import)
```

4.  Give the folders inside /store write permissions to the qbittorent group created when setting up qbittorent

5. In qbittorent, set up this script.
   - In (Options -> Download -> Run external program on torrent completion)
        add '/opt/PlanetilerTorrent/create_planetiler_torrent.sh %N %F %I' . This will run when torrent files finish, and pass on filename, path, and hash variables to the script.
   - In (Options -> Download -> Automatically add torrents from) 
        add '/store/upload' as a monitor foler and '/store/planetiler/' as save location. When a torrent is added to this '/store/upload' folder, it will automatically import into qbittorent. Since the file will already exist in '/store/planetiler/' the file will start seeding. The script places torrent files in this folder as they are created.

6. Set up OpenStreetMap planet pbf rss feed in qbittorent.
   - In the qbittorrent web ui, go to the 'RSS' tab and click 'New Subscription'
        add the osm rss feed ( https://planet.openstreetmap.org/pbf/planet-pbf-rss.xml ), click OK
   - Go back to the 'Transfers' tab and right click 'All' under 'CATEGORIES' in the left menu. Select 'Add Category'.
        add the category 'planet' and set the save folder to '/store/planet'
   - In (Options -> RSS -> RSS Torrent Auto Downloader -> Edit auto downloading rules)
        click the button to create a new rule. Set Category as 'planet'. Apply the rule to RSS feed you added earlier. Click Save

7. Optional
   - Create a firewal rule to allow TCP/UTP connections to the port listed on (Options -> Connection -> Listening port). my understanding is this is not neccesary, but will improe seeding.
   - Set up speed restricions in (Options -> Speed)

Once this has set up, OpenStreet
        
